Costigan guys money mr. baracs and today
is gonna be a lot of fun now we're not
gonna have any Lambos or Bentley's or
supras or Ferraris no exotics of any
kind in fact I'm going the complete
opposite direction and I bought a
minivan for next to nothing and it's
been abandoned for almost four years and
I'm gonna try to get it running in the
next 24 hours
also this van was on pimp my ride I
probably should have started with that
so if you guys into the channel thank
you so much for watching I really hope
you enjoyed consider subscribing if this
is a sort of thing
you like to see now I have no idea what
this even is but I knew I had to have it
when I saw it listed in Boston on Auto
Tempest for eight hundred and fifty
dollars now this if you guys don't know
is a 1999 Dodge Caravan and you guys
have probably seen this around in your
local mall or parking lot or literally
anywhere because they made a lot of
these cars but this one as you can tell
is a little bit special I decided to
team up with Advance Auto Parts to
rebuild this thing and restore it in
about 24 hours so if you guys aren't
familiar with the insanely popular early
2000s MTV show pimp my ride it's
basically where they took these derelict
trashed wrecked cars and they made them
into these show cars that were well
let's just say of questionable taste
this van was featured in an episode in
2004 but it actually wasn't the car they
started out with see a little secret
that they probably don't want you to
know is the fact that a lot of times
they didn't use the original car they
got cars that looked kind of like it and
then they've modified those because the
original cars were in really bad shape
so in the show the original van was a
1998 Plymouth Grand Voyager expresso and
you can actually see the guys at the
shop taking the van apart and basically
junking it I mean they rip open the
doors
they take the windows off they smash
everything but what the show didn't tell
you is they got a really good condition
1999 Dodge Caravan with low miles that
they could modify pretty easily but a
few years after the show is over the van
exchanged owners a few times and it
ended up in a Boston mechanic's yard and
it's sacked there for the better part of
four years literally rotting into the
ground now you guys might have seen the
Jalopnik or the drive articles about
this van and why somebody should pick it
up and why nobody actually did and
that's where I come in now this is it's
a little bit worse for okay that's
really dirty guys on gloves thank you
and we are good now this has a ton of
mold on the side but I think it'll
probably
clean up fairly well now I have no idea
where this came from it literally just
sat outside for four years in the
elements this is an interesting way of
attaching a windshield wiper
having no wiper at all so hopefully I
didn't go the windshield so we're just
gonna leave that up this is a I actually
don't know what body kit this is I
believe it's an Arab Unni or something
but I couldn't find this body kit so I
think we're gonna have to repair this
this is all just fiberglass also these
headlights are let's just say they need
to be restored they're not they're not
great now coming over to the side you
see how big this van is this is a seven
passenger or more van I don't know how
many passengers there are I don't know
much about this man but this van was
actually famous for being one of the
first vans to have doors on either side
see in the mid 90s you can only get a
door a sliding door on one side and here
you had it on both unfortunately you
can't really get in this door because
it's full of full of stuff for the show
it's a bunch of wires and let's hope
that that's not a fire hazard
even though oh that's a spider but
coming back here is where things sort of
start to make sense a little bit
different from what grandma had don't
you think so this is a completely custom
fiberglass enclosure it has some
subwoofers some speakers amps and four
monitors but what's interesting about
this is that I don't think any of this
works but here is where the magic
happens and where I'm guessing a lot of
magic did happen because yeah this side
skirt is held on by like one or two
screws and zero screws okay I think
people were using it as a as a stand and
you really shouldn't do that with this
because it was only held on by screws
and fibreglass also I can't open this
door because there's no door handles the
door handles have been
shaved I have no idea why let me try to
open it up alright and I can't open the
door
so good I think we should probably go
inside and see what's in there
but I'm definitely gonna need a face
mask all right let's do it
alright now I'm ready to check out my
brand new car this is just a precaution
- nothing to worry about check this out
it is nice and minty fresh guys well the
seats were redone in denim and they're
actually not in bad shape other than
having some sun damage and some
questionable stains
he's definitely will need to be cleaned
up and that's okay if you come back here
you can see that there's four books and
stuff I don't know why that would be a
thing in the age of Google but oh look
at that we have the color-matched wheels
we have some other wheels and tires the
tires actually don't look too bad
probably gonna end up changing those
when we get that trailer okay
and also a wraparound coach back there
all made in denim none of this actually
works because when I should probably
need the Kings right that can not be the
key okay that's the key but check this
out so you want to be a player but your
wheels ain't right moment of truth three
two what okay I saw that the lights went
on before but now it's just all right
yeah can you put the battery box on it
do you need what gloves respirator no
you're fine sure yeah you're good just
don't touch anything too long have you
seen in here uh no but I mean she'd be
fine you know there's no dry felt
probably in there somewhere dude okay
let me see what's going on here
there's oil in there that's a there's
oil in that engine and it's not
milkshake II which is good the drive
belts missing
yeah and
your tensioner probably shouldn't sound
like that that's that's good it just
needs a little Lube and then that does
not turn well the ocean you're supposed
to turn yeah oh and it doesn't there's
not really any electrical demand in the
car so yeah that's fine it's not like
there's 5,000 watts of amplifiers okay
um
power steering oh that does turn okay
power steering turns but it's covered in
oil that's fine what about down there
that's the AC compressor yeah AC
compressor that turns it's a little uh
little noisy little raunchy that's
that's always good for your whoa what's
that that that's another idler pulley
for the serpentine belt ooh should be
nice and quiet well it would be quiet if
what we're in the car and we were
listening to lots and lots of loud music
that's well at least the water pump is
turning smooth let's take a look at the
radiator let's see if there's any
coolant in there or oh okay so there's
no coolant in there about halfway down
about halfway down there is cooling in
there but we might actually just have a
leaky cap as rotten as that rubber is
mm-hmm
and as loose as the the cat parts are it
may just have been pushing out because
it was bad so you know we should
probably do we should make a list of
things that we need to get from advance
do you have that much paper I actually
don't know I'm gonna start it mainly
because I need to know if this has some
engine damage or something this is van
first start attempt let's do it whoo
whoa dude dude this thing is running
pretty good it's a little it's a little
bit lumpy but for something that has no
drive built yeah it's really good out
here these are normally a tikki motor
and it's nice and quiet
so there may be hope you're gonna give
it a little bit of a rub huh that's
that's hanging a bit
it but that's not bad okay I don't want
to run it for too long without a water
pump but dude that's that's awesome
that's potentially a little less work on
it we'll we'll see you will get
potentially a little less work I don't
like your attitude
let's see what we can get down here
because there's power going through here
we have show yeah
neon TFD you don't know what that is
foot and door let's see a show does
something okay the light came on the
bosch and relays are clicking well what
sort of 2004 sorcery is this neon oh my
gosh look at that oh boy that is amazing
so there's a little neon light show not
even a Maybach has this oh you're
missing the best part look further to
your right
oh wow I'm not sure I like all the red
flashing lights while you're driving
well yeah I mean if that goes into your
eyes that's probably not great let's see
what else it does turn that off
conserve battery tfd let's try this
something's moving okay
that's something down there don't know
what that is what does nothing and last
one is door now this is the only way I
think we can open the door it makes
sense right let's oh no way dude well
yeah I mean listen pet my ride was
pioneering the way okay all right I'm
gonna get in the other I'm gonna get
over there and we're gonna take all this
out we're gonna see what's in this band
[Music]
so jared is behind the camera for this
episode of automotive archaeology I am
like really really excited because I get
to go through other people's stuff guys
take a look at this floor
there's there's like a plexiglass
opening and I'm guessing the neons went
underneath here so there's a big false
floor is it a dance floor it might it
might be a dance floor also a remote
control for something we have rubber
mallet other stuff and a crowbar because
well let's you know let's be honest it
wasn't Boston is this does this go on I
don't think they go together but what's
in them I what is what isn't here I I
hope it's not something okay I really
dislike it why don't you climb into your
new van all right let's do that
there's a big oh that's heavy so this is
the best 2004 could come up with in
forest LCD technology so oh you know
this was this was the footrest yeah this
was so when this car was made they had
this big footrest right here and it
would come up and it was motorized all
year so this is this is the footrest
motor I think this is what was making
that noise before oh so if we put it
back together it could work we could
have a foot rest again and this looks
like a plexiglass for the footrest this
is the jewelry-making station because
the original owners I guess shoes into
jewelry and also there's these monitors
that's supposed to be dropped down on
the wiggly side this is
tire panel is a little on the wiggly
side do credit where credit is due like
the work that went into this it's
actually not bad
so in 99 like power doors today on a van
is nothing in 1999 it was a big deal and
like the mechanism that they put
together to make the door work also a
wrap-around couch with seat belts I
don't know how you I think it's like
this but you're almost sitting sideways
so how does this see you know oh there's
there's roaches in here so um so I think
this smells horrible
now sunglasses smell bad yeah as like I
say how does plastic smell absorb odor
so this car is gonna need a lot of
cleaning and a lot of mechanical
components but honestly I think we could
probably get this working what do you
think oh yeah let's make a big list and
let's go over to advance and sizes are
just amazing what's all of my busses can
you not take me seriously
[Music]
welcome to the very first episode of
shopping with Jared and Jared you got a
list we have a little bit of a list for
that van did you check it twice what's
the first thing on that list the first
thing we're coming across some washer
fluid all right we might need a bigger
cart
yes I think we're gonna we're gonna need
like at least ten of these so this is
cleaning supplies do they have any
biohazard supplies headlight restoration
kit that looking we need one of the ones
with the same thing this is a sanding
buffing kit okay let's do that all right
interior boom and boom so we need a two
inch turn down yeah there we open a
quaint so so much pipe right there we're
gonna need four of these actually why
don't we get the chrome ones extra fancy
brake fluid booms some dot three
power-steering how much do you think
we'll need of this probably two I think
our little cart is getting full well you
know it's gonna get a lot more full when
I it's full all right a lot of parts so
it's a ninety nine Dodge Caravan 3.3
liter v6 let's do coolant temp sensor
and we have valve cover gaskets and if
you have like the the intake manifold
valve cover gasket kits they sometimes
so our steering column we need the pump
pump that's what you said let's be safe
and do it there's oil all over it do we
need that I mean it's we cannot do it
just stop leak it well okay let's let's
have it I'd rather have it not need it
than need it and not have it all right
in the interest of time we got
everything and it's it's actually insane
because they had everything in stock so
you need to go and get all this stuff is
there anything I can help with I can go
go help you get everything
okay alright I'll just uh I'll just
chill here okay oh wow that is a receipt
that's a receipt alright so we got that
and then that's a lot all right we got a
got a card this out to the car no that's
true yeah we do we do have more coming
all this for a van it's dark outside
that's how much stuff we got alright so
that's a that's a full car dude thank
you so much man okay finally back in the
shop and the van actually looks a little
bit more dirty than we left it well this
van should be looking pretty good in
short order so we got all our parts over
there we're gonna go over that in the
next episode but right now I want to get
this thing stripped down and I want to
get it a little bit cleaned up at least
all that mold off when I get the wheels
off I want to get all the body panels
and all that stuff to be off because
that's going to go to the body shop to
have them hopefully redo some of this
cosmetic damage in time let's get to
work
[Music]
and we're done look at how good it looks
actually it looks really sad yeah it's
amazing how much cheap fiberglass
side-skirts can make a car yeah this Sam
look kind of cool this is a right so for
any of you wondering what a pimp my ride
car looks like under the skin it's just
regular car skin it's just literally
stock underneath and they painted right
over all the molding and as you can see
it's just double-sided tape into place
there were a lot of self tapping screws
but all in all it actually wasn't hard
to take apart that wasn't too bad we had
some Ross but that's not the cars fault
that's just yeah that's just Boston but
pleasantly surprising is this one spot
you wiped a little bit yeah versus not
wiped I mean it clicked I think it
cleans up pretty nice I mean it's a
brand that's just wiping the scum not
Washington yet yeah so here she is 3.3
liter v6 with how many horsepower 117
this is gonna need a lot of work but I
think she runs okay so we're gonna be
replacing all the stuff over here you're
gonna have the alternator replaced the
water palm power steering pump all the
pulleys the belts the hoses right here
we're going to recharge the AC we're
gonna see if it actually takes a
recharge and fix all the stuff like the
leaking valve cover and do the air
filter but my absolute favorite part of
this entire deconstruction are the
brakes especially this one now you might
not notice too much yeah it's a it's a
worn brake rotor
that's nothing to write home about
except for when you go over here Wow
okay so there is like a very very big
lip right down there it looks like it
was just metal on metal and you can see
how worn down this is this is so not
safe I'm not sure how this was even
driven like this I mean this must have
made a incredible noise you run out of
pad and start grinding
- metal it sounds horrendous and you
drive it for quite a while to be able to
burn it down that much so one of the
things I wanted to tackle was the
underside of this car now this car has
been sitting for four years and it's
been sitting up north and I wanted to
see if this is actually okay or not and
I wager that it is and dude this looks
this looks great this looks really good
there's not an inch of rust anywhere I
mean there's a little bit on stuff like
the exhaust up here but other than that
I mean this is this is looking really
really nice and it didn't look like it
was in the Northeast for a long time it
actually looked like somewhat on a
California car one of the few things I
guess dodge got right was the corrosion
protection yeah sure oh yeah I mean it
looks I'm not gonna say it looks brand
new but it looks very very serviceable
it doesn't look like anything's gonna
give us too much of an issue but I don't
want to jinx myself I've done that yeah
we've had that happen a few times I've
done that enough so tomorrow morning I'm
taking this to the body shop so they can
work on it but then I'm gonna come back
because Jarrod's gonna be working on
this engine and I can't wait to have
this thing purring and have this whole
thing as a awesome road trip car and an
awesome gift for somebody maybe I don't
know we'll get it running good back on
the ground and then we'll try to get the
TV's working so we can have some
entertainment for the drive Jarrod
you're not supposed to say that you can
watch TV while driving
I'm not whoever's in the back is ah
right the front monitor another three
the other nine monitors another seven
eight monitor however many TVs are in
there
you guys you guys you guys you guys you
guys ah
so Jared press the button and that fired
into life so I am I am very very excited
now so we might have an actual foot rest
that works okay so oh yes yes Oh
everything works in this man
[Music]
you